my name is tracy draper and i am from
the pepika sees nation in saskatchewan
i am a cree woman and i was brought up
in
saskatchewan and now i make my home here
i'm a visitor
and happy to be here wars is
pure driven our mission is to improve
the life of
aboriginal people who have used and are
using illicit drugs and alcohol
through education harm reduction
and outreach and advocacy for our people
mostly we go into the streets and areas
where
a lot of people don't go and we take
pride in the fact that we do
all the cleanup jobs that other places
will not do
or perhaps maybe don't want to look at
but
that's what we do we go right in and we
talk with the people
wherever we can in the downtown eastside
the alleys the corners
as long as it's on the street that's
where we are
the addiction is just the symptom
of something else that's wrong
pain trauma colonization
big one there if you look at those
things first
then you won't have to look at the
addiction because you'll just know that
it's hand in hand
so i think it's treat the person first
the addiction is just the symptom of
something else that's gone really wrong
and i think if we start paying attention
more to that
to that human being because that person
wasn't born that way that person didn't
ask
when they were five years old to be a
heroin addict on the downtown east side
or to be turning tricks at 13 years old
or what have you
they didn't ask for that life we were
not born like that there's a human being
there and if we can see that beautiful
human being
right at the crux of where they are the
rest is just the outside it's the shell